[APPSEC-48] Modify rule S2083[java]: Educational content (#1112)
SonarSource/rspec: rules/S2083/java/how-to-fix-it/java-se.adoc

=== How to fix it in Java SE

> The following code is vulnerable to path injection and can be leveraged by an attacker to delete arbitrary files.

Reviewer: This sentence should also quickly explain `why` it is vulnerable to path injection

> The following code is vulnerable to path injection as it's contructing a path using untrusted data. This path is then use to delete a file without being validated first. Therefore, it can be leveraged by an attacker to delete arbitrary files.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The following code is vulnerable to path injection as it is constructing a path using untrusted data. This path is then used to delete a file without being validated first. Therefore, it can be leveraged by an attacker to delete arbitrary files.
```
grammar + it's->it is (writing standard initiative)

|===
h| Non-compliant code example
|
[source,java]
----
@RestController
public class ApiController
{
    static private String targetDirectory = "/path/to/target/directory";

    @GetMapping(value = "/endpoint")
    public void endpoint(@RequestParam("filename") filename) throws IOException {

        File file = new File(targetDirectory + filename);
        file.delete(); // Noncompliant
    }
}
----
h| Compliant solution
|
[source,java]
----
@RestController
public class ApiController
{
    static private String targetDirectory = "/path/to/target/directory";

    @GetMapping(value = "/endpoint")
    public void endpoint(@RequestParam("filename") filename) throws IOException {

        File file = new File(targetDirectory + filename);
        String canonicalDestinationPath = file.getCanonicalPath();

        if (!canonicalDestinationPath.startsWith(targetDirectory)) {
            throw new IOException("Entry is outside of the target directory");
        }

        file.delete();
    }
}
----
|===

=== How does this work?

The universal way to prevent path injection is to validate the path that that was contructed form untrusted data. 

The validation should be done as follow:

> * Resolve the canonical path of the file by using methods like java.io.File/getCanonicalPath. This will resolve relative path or path component like ../ and removes any ambiguity regarding the file's location. 
> * Check that the canonical path is within the directory where the file should be located.

Reviewer: I suggest adding numbering to emphasize that both steps should be done:

```suggestion
1. Resolve the canonical path of the file by using methods like java.io.File/getCanonicalPath. This will resolve relative path or path components like `../` and removes any ambiguity regarding the file's location. 
2. Check that the canonical path is within the directory where the file should be located.
```
